THE JOURNEY FROM 
H 
PLATFORM NINE 
AND THREE-QUARTERS 
arry's last month with the Dursleys wasn't fun. True, 
Dudley was now so scared of Harry he wouldn't stay in 
the same room, while Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon didn't shut 
Harry in his cupboard, force him to do anything, or shout at 
him - in fact, they didn't speak to him at all. Half terrified, half 
furious, they acted as though any chair with Harry in it were 
empty. Although this was an improvement in many ways, it did be
come a bit depressing after a while. 
Harry kept to his room, with his new owl for company. He had 
decided to call her Hedwig, a name he had found in A History of 
Magic. His school books were very interesting. He lay on his bed 
reading late into the night, Hedwig swooping in and out of the 
open window as she pleased. It was lucky that Aunt Petunia didn't 
come in to vacuum anymore, because Hedwig kept bringing back 
dead mice. Every night before he went to sleep, Harry ticked off  
88 
THE  JOURNEY  FROM  PLATFORM 
NINE  AND  THREE-QUARTERS 
another day on the piece of paper he had pinned to the wall, count
ing down to September the first. 
On the last day of August he thought he'd better speak to his 
aunt and uncle about getting to King's Cross station the next day, 
so he went down to the living room where they were watching a 
quiz show on television. He cleared his throat to let them know he 
was there, and Dudley screamed and ran from the room. 
"Er - Uncle Vernon?" 
Uncle Vernon grunted to show he was listening. 
"Er - I need to be at King's Cross tomorrow to - to go to 
Hogwarts." 
Uncle Vernon grunted again. 
"Would it be all right if you gave me a lift?" 
Grunt. Harry supposed that meant yes. 
"Thank you." 
He was about to go back upstairs when Uncle Vernon actually 
spoke. 
"Funny way to get to a wizards' school, the train. Magic carpets 
all got punctures, have they?" 
Harry didn't say anything. 
"Where is this school, anyway?" 
"I don't know," said Harry, realizing this for the first time. He 
pulled the ticket Hagrid had given him out of his pocket. 
"I just take the train from platform nine and three-quarters at 
eleven o'clock," he read. 
His aunt and uncle stared. 
"Platform what?" 
"Nine and three-quarters." 
89 
CHAPTER  SIX 
"Don't talk rubbish," said Uncle Vernon. "There is no platform 
nine and three-quarters." 
"It's on my ticket." 
"Barking," said Uncle Vernon, "howling mad, the lot of them. 
You'll see. You just wait. All right, we'll take you to King's Cross. 
We're going up to London tomorrow anyway, or I wouldn't 
bother." 
"Why are you going to London?" Harry asked, trying to keep 
things friendly. 
"Taking Dudley to the hospital," growled Uncle Vernon. "Got 
to have that ruddy tail removed before he goes to Smeltings." 
Harry woke at five o'clock the next morning and was too excited 
and nervous to go back to sleep. He got up and pulled on his jeans 
because he didn't want to walk into the station in his wizard's 
robes - he'd change on the train. He checked his Hogwarts list yet 
again to make sure he had everything he needed, saw that Hedwig 
was shut safely in her cage, and then paced the room, waiting for 
the Dursleys to get up. Two hours later, Harry's huge, heavy trunk 
had been loaded into the Dursleys' car, Aunt Petunia had talked 
Dudley into sitting next to Harry, and they had set off. 
They reached King's Cross at half past ten. Uncle Vernon 
dumped Harry's trunk onto a cart and wheeled it into the station 
for him. Harry thought this was strangely kind until Uncle Vernon 
stopped dead, facing the platforms with a nasty grin on his face. 
"Well, there you are, boy. Platform nine - platform ten. Your 
platform should be somewhere in the middle, but they don't seem 
to have built it yet, do they?" 
90 
THE  JOURNEY  FROM  PLATFORM 
NINE  AND  THREE-QUARTERS 
He was quite right, of course. There was a big plastic number 
nine over one platform and a big plastic number ten over the one 
next to it, and in the middle, nothing at all. 
"Have a good term," said Uncle Vernon with an even nastier 
smile. He left without another word. Harry turned and saw the 
Dursleys drive away. All three of them were laughing. Harry's 
mouth went rather dry. What on earth was he going to do? He was 
starting to attract a lot of funny looks, because of Hedwig. He'd 
have to ask someone. 
He stopped a passing guard, but didn't dare mention platform 
nine and three-quarters. The guard had never heard of Hogwarts 
and when Harry couldn't even tell him what part of the country it 
was in, he started to get annoyed, as though Harry was being stu
pid on purpose. Getting desperate, Harry asked for the train that 
left at eleven o'clock, but the guard said there wasn't one. In the end 
the guard strode away, muttering about time wasters. Harry was 
now trying hard not to panic. According to the large clock over the 
arrivals board, he had ten minutes left to get on the train to Hog
warts and he had no idea how to do it; he was stranded in the mid
dle of a station with a trunk he could hardly lift, a pocket full of 
wizard money, and a large owl. 
Hagrid must have forgotten to tell him something you had to 
do, like tapping the third brick on the left to get into Diagon Alley. 
He wondered if he should get out his wand and start tapping the 
ticket inspector's stand between platforms nine and ten. 
At that moment a group of people passed just behind him and 
he caught a few words of what they were saying. 
"- packed with Muggles, of course -" 
91 
CHAPTER  SIX 
Harry swung round. The speaker was a plump woman who was 
talking to four boys, all with flaming red hair. Each of them was 
pushing a trunk like Harry's in front of him - and they had an 
owl. 
Heart hammering, Harry pushed his cart after them. They 
stopped and so did he, just near enough to hear what they were say
ing. 
"Now, what's the platform number?" said the boys' mother. 
"Nine and three-quarters!" piped a small girl, also red-headed, 
who was holding her hand, "Mom, can't I go . . ." 
"You're not old enough, Ginny, now be quiet. All right, Percy, 
you go first." 
What looked like the oldest boy marched toward platforms nine 
and ten. Harry watched, careful not to blink in case he missed it - 
but just as the boy reached the dividing barrier between the two 
platforms, a large crowd of tourists came swarming in front of him 
and by the time the last backpack had cleared away, the boy had 
vanished. 
"Fred, you next," the plump woman said. 
"I'm not Fred, I'm George," said the boy. "Honestly, woman, 
you call yourself our mother? Can't you tell I'm George?" 
"Sorry, George, dear." 
"Only joking, I am Fred," said the boy, and off he went. His 
twin called after him to hurry up, and he must have done so, be
cause a second later, he had gone - but how had he done it? 
Now the third brother was walking briskly toward the barrier - 
he was almost there - and then, quite suddenly, he wasn't any
where. 
92 
THE  JOURNEY  FROM  PLATFORM 
NINE  AND  THREE-QUARTERS 
There was nothing else for it. 
"Excuse me," Harry said to the plump woman. 
"Hello, dear," she said. "First time at Hogwarts? Ron's new, too." 
She pointed at the last and youngest of her sons. He was tall, 
thin, and gangling, with freckles, big hands and feet, and a long 
nose. 
"Yes," said Harry. "The thing is - the thing is, I don't know 
how to -" 
"How to get onto the platform?" she said kindly, and Harry 
nodded. 
"Not to worry," she said. "All you have to do is walk straight at 
the barrier between platforms nine and ten. Don't stop and don't be 
scared you'll crash into it, that's very important. Best do it at a bit 
of a run if you're nervous. Go on, go now before Ron." 
"Er - okay," said Harry. 
He pushed his trolley around and stared at the barrier. It looked 
very solid. 
He started to walk toward it. People jostled him on their way to 
platforms nine and ten. Harry walked more quickly. He was going 
to smash right into that barrier and then he'd be in trouble - lean
ing forward on his cart, he broke into a heavy run - the barrier 
was coming nearer and nearer - he wouldn't be able to stop - 
the cart was out of control - he was a foot away - he closed his 
eyes ready for the crash - 
It didn't come . . . he kept on running . . . he opened his eyes. 
A scarlet steam engine was waiting next to a platform packed 
with people. A sign overhead said Hogwarts Express, eleven 
o'clock. Harry looked behind him and saw a wrought-iron archway  
93 
CHAPTER  SIX 
where the barrier had been, with the words Platform Nine and 
Three-Quarters on it. He had done it. 
Smoke from the engine drifted over the heads of the chattering 
crowd, while cats of every color wound here and there between 
their legs. Owls hooted to one another in a disgruntled sort of way 
over the babble and the scraping of heavy trunks. 
The first few carriages were already packed with students, some 
hanging out of the window to talk to their families, some fighting 
over seats. Harry pushed his cart off down the platform in search of 
an empty seat. He passed a round-faced boy who was saying, 
"Gran, I've lost my toad again." 
"Oh, Neville," he heard the old woman sigh. 
A boy with dreadlocks was surrounded by a small crowd. 
"Give us a look, Lee, go on." 
The boy lifted the lid of a box in his arms, and the people 
around him shrieked and yelled as something inside poked out a 
long, hairy leg. 
Harry pressed on through the crowd until he found an empty 
compartment near the end of the train. He put Hedwig inside first 
and then started to shove and heave his trunk toward the train 
door. He tried to lift it up the steps but could hardly raise one end 
and twice he dropped it painfully on his foot. 
"Want a hand?" It was one of the red-haired twins he'd followed 
through the barrier. 
"Yes, please," Harry panted. 
"Oy, Fred! C'mere and help!" 
With the twins' help, Harry's trunk was at last tucked away in a 
corner of the compartment. 
94 
THE  JOURNEY  FROM  PLATFORM 
NINE  AND  THREE-QUARTERS 
"Thanks," said Harry, pushing his sweaty hair out of his eyes. 
"What's that?" said one of the twins suddenly, pointing at 
Harry's lightning scar. 
"Blimey," said the other twin. "Are you - ?" 
"He is," said the first twin. "Aren't you?" he added to Harry. 
"What?" said Harry. 
"Harry Potter," chorused the twins. 
"Oh, him," said Harry. "I mean, yes, I am." 
The two boys gawked at him, and Harry felt himself turning 
red. Then, to his relief, a voice came floating in through the train's 
open door. 
"Fred? George? Are you there?" 
"Coming, Mom." 
With a last look at Harry, the twins hopped off the train. 
Harry sat down next to the window where, half hidden, he 
could watch the red-haired family on the platform and hear what 
they were saying. Their mother had just taken out her handker
chief. 
"Ron, you've got something on your nose." 
The youngest boy tried to jerk out of the way, but she grabbed 
him and began rubbing the end of his nose. 
"Mom - geroff." He wriggled free. 
"Aaah, has ickle Ronnie got somefink on his nosie?" said one of 
the twins. 
"Shut up," said Ron. 
"Where's Percy?" said their mother. 
"He's coming now." 
The oldest boy came striding into sight. He had already changed  
95 
CHAPTER  SIX 
into his billowing black Hogwarts robes, and Harry noticed a shiny 
red and gold badge on his chest with the letter P on it. 
"Can't stay long, Mother," he said. "I'm up front, the prefects 
have got two compartments to themselves -" 
"Oh, are you a prefect, Percy?" said one of the twins, with an air 
of great surprise. "You should have said something, we had no 
idea." 
"Hang on, I think I remember him saying something about it," 
said the other twin. "Once -" 
"Or twice -" 
"A minute -" 
"All summer -" 
"Oh, shut up," said Percy the Prefect. 
"How come Percy gets new robes, anyway?" said one of the 
twins. 
"Because he's a prefect," said their mother fondly. "All right, dear, 
well, have a good term - send me an owl when you get there." 
She kissed Percy on the cheek and he left. Then she turned to the 
twins. 
"Now, you two - this year, you behave yourselves. If I get one 
more owl telling me you've - you've blown up a toilet or -" 
"Blown up a toilet? We've never blown up a toilet." 
"Great idea though, thanks, Mom." 
"It's not funny. And look after Ron." 
"Don't worry, ickle Ronniekins is safe with us." 
"Shut up," said Ron again. He was almost as tall as the twins al
ready and his nose was still pink where his mother had rubbed it. 
"Hey, Mom, guess what? Guess who we just met on the train?" 
96 
THE  JOURNEY  FROM  PLATFORM 
NINE  AND  THREE-QUARTERS 
Harry leaned back quickly so they couldn't see him looking. 
"You know that black-haired boy who was near us in the station? 
Know who he is?" 
"Who?" 
"Harry Potter!" 
Harry heard the little girl's voice. 
"Oh, Mom, can I go on the train and see him, Mom, oh 
please. . . ." 
"You've already seen him, Ginny, and the poor boy isn't some
thing you goggle at in a zoo. Is he really, Fred? How do you know?" 
"Asked him. Saw his scar. It's really there - like lightning." 
"Poor dear - no wonder he was alone, I wondered. He was ever 
so polite when he asked how to get onto the platform." 
"Never mind that, do you think he remembers what You-Know
Who looks like?" 
Their mother suddenly became very stern. 
"I forbid you to ask him, Fred. No, don't you dare. As though he 
needs reminding of that on his first day at school." 
"All right, keep your hair on." 
A whistle sounded. 
"Hurry up!" their mother said, and the three boys clambered 
onto the train. They leaned out of the window for her to kiss them 
good-bye, and their younger sister began to cry. 
"Don't, Ginny, we'll send you loads of owls." 
"We'll send you a Hogwarts toilet seat." 
"George!" 
"Only joking, Mom." 
The train began to move. Harry saw the boys' mother waving  
97 
CHAPTER  SIX 
and their sister, half laughing, half crying, running to keep up with 
the train until it gathered too much speed, then she fell back and 
waved. 
Harry watched the girl and her mother disappear as the train 
rounded the corner. Houses flashed past the window. Harry felt a 
great leap of excitement. He didn't know what he was going to - 
but it had to be better than what he was leaving behind. 
The door of the compartment slid open and the youngest red
headed boy came in. 
"Anyone sitting there?" he asked, pointing at the seat opposite 
Harry. "Everywhere else is full." 
Harry shook his head and the boy sat down. He glanced at 
Harry and then looked quickly out of the window, pretending he 
hadn't looked. Harry saw he still had a black mark on his nose. 
"Hey, Ron." 
The twins were back. 
"Listen, we're going down the middle of the train - Lee Jor
dan's got a giant tarantula down there." 
"Right," mumbled Ron. 
"Harry," said the other twin, "did we introduce ourselves? Fred 
and George Weasley. And this is Ron, our brother. See you later, 
then." 
"Bye," said Harry and Ron. The twins slid the compartment 
door shut behind them. 
"Are you really Harry Potter?" Ron blurted out. 
Harry nodded. 
"Oh - well, I thought it might be one of Fred and George's 
jokes," said Ron. "And have you really got - you know . . ." 
98 
THE  JOURNEY  FROM  PLATFORM 
NINE  AND  THREE-QUARTERS 
He pointed at Harry's forehead. 
Harry pulled back his bangs to show the lightning scar. Ron 
stared. 
"So that's where You-Know-Who - ?" 
"Yes," said Harry, "but I can't remember it." 
"Nothing?" said Ron eagerly. 
"Well - I remember a lot of green light, but nothing else." 
"Wow," said Ron. He sat and stared at Harry for a few moments, 
then, as though he had suddenly realized what he was doing, he 
looked quickly out of the window again. 
"Are all your family wizards?" asked Harry, who found Ron just 
as interesting as Ron found him. 
"Er - yes, I think so," said Ron. "I think Mom's got a second 
cousin who's an accountant, but we never talk about him." 
"So you must know loads of magic already." 
The Weasleys were clearly one of those old wizarding families 
the pale boy in Diagon Alley had talked about. 
"I heard you went to live with Muggles," said Ron. "What are 
they like?" 
"Horrible - well, not all of them. My aunt and uncle and 
cousin are, though. Wish I'd had three wizard brothers." 
"Five," said Ron. For some reason, 
