C H A P T E R  S E V E N 
THE SORTING HAT 
T 
he door swung open at once. A tall, black-haired witch in 
emerald-green robes stood there. She had a very stern face 
and Harry's first thought was that this was not someone to cross. 
"The firs' years, Professor McGonagall," said Hagrid. 
"Thank you, Hagrid. I will take them from here." 
She pulled the door wide. The entrance hall was so big you 
could have fit the whole of the Dursleys' house in it. The stone 
walls were lit with flaming torches like the ones at Gringotts, the 
ceiling was too high to make out, and a magnificent marble stair
case facing them led to the upper floors. 
They followed Professor McGonagall across the flagged stone 
floor. Harry could hear the drone of hundreds of voices from a 
doorway to the right - the rest of the school must already be 
here - but Professor McGonagall showed the first years into a 
small, empty chamber off the hall. They crowded in, standing  
113 
CHAPTER  SEVEN 
rather closer together than they would usually have done, peering 
about nervously. 
"Welcome to Hogwarts," said Professor McGonagall. "The 
start-of-term banquet will begin shortly, but before you take your 
seats in the Great Hall, you will be sorted into your Houses. The 
Sorting is a very important ceremony because, while you are here, 
your House will be something like your family within Hogwarts. 
You will have classes with the rest of your House, sleep in your 
House dormitory, and spend free time in your House common 
room. 
"The four Houses are called Gryffindor, Hufflepuff, Ravenclaw, 
and Slytherin. Each House has its own noble history and each has 
produced outstanding witches and wizards. While you are at Hog
warts, your triumphs will earn your House points, while any rule
breaking will lose House points. At the end of the year, the House 
with the most points is awarded the House cup, a great honor. I 
hope each of you will be a credit to whichever House becomes 
yours. 
"The Sorting Ceremony will take place in a few minutes in front 
of the rest of the school. I suggest you all smarten yourselves up as 
much as you can while you are waiting." 
Her eyes lingered for a moment on Neville's cloak, which was 
fastened under his left ear, and on Ron's smudged nose. Harry ner
vously tried to flatten his hair. 
"I shall return when we are ready for you," said Professor Mc
Gonagall. "Please wait quietly." 
She left the chamber. Harry swallowed. 
"How exactly do they sort us into Houses?" he asked Ron. 
114 
THE  SORTING  HAT 
"Some sort of test, I think. Fred said it hurts a lot, but I think he 
was joking." 
Harry's heart gave a horrible jolt. A test? In front of the whole 
school? But he didn't know any magic yet - what on earth would 
he have to do? He hadn't expected something like this the moment 
they arrived. He looked around anxiously and saw that everyone 
else looked terrified, too. No one was talking much except 
Hermione Granger, who was whispering very fast about all the 
spells she'd learned and wondering which one she'd need. Harry 
tried hard not to listen to her. He'd never been more nervous, 
never, not even when he'd had to take a school report home to the 
Dursleys saying that he'd somehow turned his teachers wig blue. 
He kept his eyes fixed on the door. Any second now, Professor 
McGonagall would come back and lead him to his doom. 
Then something happened that made him jump about a foot in 
the air - several people behind him screamed. 
"What the - ?" 
He gasped. So did the people around him. About twenty ghosts 
had just streamed through the back wall. Pearly-white and slightly 
transparent, they glided across the room talking to one another and 
hardly glancing at the first years. They seemed to be arguing. What 
looked like a fat little monk was saying: "Forgive and forget, I say, 
we ought to give him a second chance -" 
"My dear Friar, haven't we given Peeves all the chances he de
serves? He gives us all a bad name and you know, he's not really 
even a ghost - I say, what are you all doing here?" 
A ghost wearing a ruff and tights had suddenly noticed the first 
years. 
115 
CHAPTER  SEVEN 
Nobody answered. 
"New students!" said the Fat Friar, smiling around at them. 
"About to be Sorted, I suppose?" 
A few people nodded mutely. 
"Hope to see you in Hufflepuff!" said the Friar. "My old House, 
you know." 
"Move along now," said a sharp voice. "The Sorting Ceremony's 
about to start." 
Professor McGonagall had returned. One by one, the ghosts 
floated away through the opposite wall. 
"Now, form a line," Professor McGonagall told the first years, 
"and follow me." 
Feeling oddly as though his legs had turned to lead, Harry got 
into line behind a boy with sandy hair, with Ron behind him, and 
they walked out of the chamber, back across the hall, and through 
a pair of double doors into the Great Hall. 
Harry had never even imagined such a strange and splendid 
place. It was lit by thousands and thousands of candles that were 
floating in midair over four long tables, where the rest of the stu
dents were sitting. These tables were laid with glittering golden 
plates and goblets. At the top of the hall was another long table 
where the teachers were sitting. Professor McGonagall led the first 
years up here, so that they came to a halt in a line facing the other 
students, with the teachers behind them. The hundreds of faces 
staring at them looked like pale lanterns in the flickering candle
light. Dotted here and there among the students, the ghosts shone 
misty silver. Mainly to avoid all the staring eyes, Harry looked up
ward and saw a velvety black ceiling dotted with stars. He heard  
116 
THE  SORTING  HAT 
Hermione whisper, "It's bewitched to look like the sky outside. I 
read about it in Hogwarts, A History." 
It was hard to believe there was a ceiling there at all, and that the 
Great Hall didn't simply open on to the heavens. 
Harry quickly looked down again as Professor McGonagall 
silently placed a four-legged stool in front of the first years. On top 
of the stool she put a pointed wizard's hat. This hat was patched 
and frayed and extremely dirty. Aunt Petunia wouldn't have let it in 
the house. 
Maybe they had to try and get a rabbit out of it, Harry thought 
wildly, that seemed the sort of thing - noticing that everyone in 
the hall was now staring at the hat, he stared at it, too. For a few 
seconds, there was complete silence. Then the hat twitched. A rip 
near the brim opened wide like a mouth - and the hat began to 
sing: 
"Oh, you may not think I'm pretty, 
But don't judge on what you see, 
I'll eat myself if you can find 
A smarter hat than me. 
You can keep your bowlers black, 
Your top hats sleek and tall, 
For I'm the Hogwarts Sorting Hat 
And I can cap them all. 
There's nothing hidden in your head 
The Sorting Hat can't see, 
So try me on and I will tell you 
Where you ought to be. 
117 
CHAPTER  SEVEN 
You might belong in Gryffindor, 
Where dwell the brave at heart, 
Their daring, nerve, and chivalry 
Set Gryffindors apart; 
You might belong in Hufflepuff, 
Where they are just and loyal, 
Those patient Hufflepuffs are true 
And unafraid of toil; 
Or yet in wise old Ravenclaw, 
If you've a ready mind, 
Where those of wit and learning, 
Will always find their kind; 
Or perhaps in Slytherin 
You'll make your real friends, 
Those cunning folk use any means 
To achieve their ends. 
So put me on! Don't be afraid! 
And don't get in a flap! 
You're in safe hands (though I have none) 
For I'm a Thinking Cap!" 
The whole hall burst into applause as the hat finished its song. It 
bowed to each of the four tables and then became quite still again. 
"So we've just got to try on the hat!" Ron whispered to Harry. 
"I'll kill Fred, he was going on about wrestling a troll." 
Harry smiled weakly. Yes, trying on the hat was a lot better than 
having to do a spell, but he did wish they could have tried it on 
without everyone watching. The hat seemed to be asking rather a  
118 
THE  SORTING  HAT 
lot; Harry didn't feel brave or quick-witted or any of it at the mo
ment. If only the hat had mentioned a House for people who felt a 
bit queasy,

